this is John Henry shirt and you're
watching a hundred days of SEO what's up
my smart smart friends I'm Brendon
huffard you're watching the hundred days
of SEO today we are sitting down with
John Henry shirk hands down one of the
smartest minds when it comes to b2b
content strategy now here's the thing
like I don't do b2b I have asked the
other SEO goals my website is different
you know not like a b2b kind of company
here's the thing if you don't have a
strong strategy behind your content
behind what you're making I'm not saying
you did a little bit of keyword research
that's not a strategy that's a tactic
what I'm talking about is putting
together a whole overarching strategy of
exactly how all of this content maps to
your business goals if you've never
thought about that this is the interview
to watch make sure you watch all the way
to the end John's gonna drop just
knowledge bombs throughout from
beginning to end I'm so excited for you
to watch this let's get into it
John Henry sure thanks for coming on
hundred days of SEO Brennan thanks for
having me yeah so I want to kick things
off I think SEO can be super not
overwhelming but it's a big topic right
because there's a lot of ways to find
success when you start with a new client
how do you decide like what to
prioritize what do you look for and like
how do you kind of think about all right
here here's where I'm gonna get like
some high leverage stuff so it really
depends on the size of the site and if
they have the content in place that they
need to rank like a lot of companies
want to rank their homepage for like a
really high traffic commercial term boom
just like never ranked or it would be
very hard to rank it for or they just
don't have the right content in place of
typically because content production
takes so long and there's a lot a lot of
different forces that need to come
together to get content out the door
I typically prioritize content creation
and content planning first and then Wow
everyone starts and I mean it could be
different though like I would when I
first look at a site I would run through
like psycho get an idea of
like if there's like massive technical
issues that would require like me
platforming or getting on a CMS and even
if there is I probably still prioritize
content development first you need if
you don't have the content that's
designed to rank it's just the site's
not you're not going to see benefit from
all the other stuff that you do and then
typically I would do technical work but
I unless it's like a really big site I'm
not gonna go crazy on the technical
stuff like I want to get a clean crawl
but as long as the site's in like good
working technical order and yeah I would
I would really focus on like content
creation or if we're like if they have a
time that comes up already it just needs
to work content optimization other
things that I think like internal
changing internal links and like
internal linking structures can take
some time so and that's typically pretty
important so I'd want to get that in the
queue early on but I mean definitely on
a site by site basis I've always been
like a I guess I had a very rudimentary
understanding of SEO for a long time and
obviously I wasn't wrong because I had
success with it my clients had success
with it it was just a very like
rudimentary here's the keyword here's
the search volume we make the content
and then we do all the things that
you're supposed to do to optimize it
right you put the keywords in the right
places and then we build links to it and
then that's it and over the last like
two years it's been a big process of you
know learning about like clustering and
hub content and siloing things inside
our Co texture and into how we interlink
things and then probably over the last
like six months it's been a lot more
looking at search intent like really
starting to focus on what is the actual
problem that we're gonna solve here
versus just it's a keyword let's put it
in the first paragraph right some of I
need that type of BS how do you think
about like mapping search intent pillars
pillar of the cluster typically handles
like the awareness content at least at
the top of it or above the fold and
really trust link and I think it's like
some people kind of poopoo like what is
content or like you know how do you
define this but it's actually to rank of
what is age is really powerful because
you're defining your category or like
your product category for a higher okay
so this this is crazy this is one of the
best points so far in this video and it
is so powerful no matter what your
business is owning the what is search is
so powerful Nicole from map and compass
does elopement adventure photography and
if somebody was like googled what is
adventure photography or what is
elopement photography they should find
the definition she should be the one
defining that if I was Kody winner and I
was selling businesses vlog style videos
for their business I should own what is
vlog style video in search now I'm not
gonna own what is SEO but there's so
much value in owning the category
definition for what it is that you do
alright back back to the video that our
potential buyer that's searching for it
so really and like Pilar's have a
tendency to rank for a lot of terms a
lot of the more general stuff they pick
up a lot of light where sometimes
actually what I want like up they just
rank pillars rank instead so having that
like that definition and getting
everyone on the same page I think and
the pillar is like really powerful and
then I try and look at hubs actually
like the hub pages as different types of
intent and ways to write for different
types of intent and like each hub sort
of because if you because if you map the
different types of intent to stages of
the purchase journey you can kind of
create a narrative structure for your
hub as opposed just like having it be
sort of broken apart and I find that
when a hub is structured as like a
thematic piece the opt-in to like
download the entire version as a PDF is
much higher rather than fits just like I
get our 10 days of just join a content
that are like somatically related if you
have like almost
a little bit microsite put some design
effort into it sort of like almost like
a like a custom theme for for the for
the collection of content I think that
and like you know kind of mapping all
those different intents and those major
questions people have about a product
that's really how to get opt-ins that I
think are like product or category
relevant so I try and hit the dominant
intense that are gonna drive a
reasonable amount of traffic in the
various hubs you know it I'd say it's
tough to map specific intent when it
gets really down funnel and you can play
around with with like auto suggests but
I autosuggest will kind of give you what
you want when you start suggesting
certain words to it oh it's it's tough
to measure especially in like a b2b
environment where you know like the
entire product category like head term
gets like three thousand searches a
month getting that like that
nitty-gritty level of intent is tougher
and I find that just like using common
sense and mapping it to like realistic
questions people should or could have
about the purchase journey is kind of
where I take it like not everything I do
is going to be a hundred sent back by
data there's gonna be some common sense
and some business acumen in there to
connect the dots but especially because
like a lot of the stuff I'm working on
is pretty pretty new I think mapping
intent is important but it also comes
down to like knowing your buyer and I
think when you understand those concerns
and those pain points that allows you to
structure kind of connect the dots where
the key word volume is lacking so and I
think like when you get to the bottom of
the funnel really it's gonna be about
like how do you communicate with your
customer how do you answer those like
deeper in questions that are keeping
them from converting and you might be
able to find that on competitor content
you might be able to find it in keyword
volume but I think a big part it's gonna
have to come from common sense and
really understanding what people want to
purchase and what their concerns are
kind of mistakes do you see beginners
making when it comes to SEO content I'd
say the biggest mistake is probably
being tactical instead of strategic
people like really focusing on like
executing one piece
making it like this 10x piece of content
but not having really like a real
network of content to sort of like bring
buyers through and I think also just
thing I've seen it in a lot of and a lot
and a lot of different businesses and
something that I'm gonna put my little
buddy down
Nords is really not having a plan when
it comes to content that's why I like
tools like market muse and and like
other types of like content inventory
and planning tools because understanding
sort of like what you need to execute
again instead of just having content be
this nebulous thing that we're gonna
keep doing but really like how much
traffic can we get predictably a month
how are we going to link back all this
stuff into traffic numbers and then how
are we going to convert that traffic
like what is our plan and I think
especially because I came from the
agency side early on and this is a knock
on work that they've work that were
great I just need two premises just like
it wasn't a concern like I was doing SEO
2010-2011 and it was just like we can
get traffic to the site through Google
that is crazy we didn't have a good
understanding of like how to monetize
that traffic how to pull them in when
people weren't ready to convert on the
spot like what what sort of like mid
funnel content could we give them and I
would get them to give us an email and
get us be able to follow up with them I
just didn't really get I had an idea of
like how to move Serbs but I'd
understand like how to move revenue
through a website trying to really focus
on your product and like owning your
product topic instead of like you know
we do you know development so we want to
create like a guide for developers that
want to find jobs because that's
something that like a lot of them want
to do like how to find the best job as a
developer but it's like did you make a
DevOps tool for like a very specific
case perhaps like job interview tips for
developers it might get cool people to
look at your site and late but like it's
so far removed from your goals like
focus on like the problems that you
solve and the pain points that you have
and really own that and like like I have
a client that ranks for a specific type
of email template and it drives so so so
much traffic but what the you know what
the numbers in HR so tell you is like
those are a lot of consumers that are
looking to do an inter personal email
they're looking for like
a specific type of email to send someone
when they have a situation that happens
in their personal life it's not a
business specific email like figuring
out like the audience and everything
it's tough like focus on the things that
you know your audience would be looking
for and be like really specific so you
know like if you're selling a signature
documents I would focus on obviously
like a signature and like proposal
creation and like structuring documents
so they get signed faster speeding up
the time to close for deals because
that's really like what the whole thing
is about is speeding up your sales cycle
and like so focusing on like speeding up
the sales cycle what people can do and
you can when when you focus on problems
you can provide like a lot of different
solutions but you can artfully you know
suggest that your product as one of
those solutions and I think you know
people worry about like are you gonna be
biased like I hate buyers guides with my
clients all the time so you know
focusing on like you know how do you buy
this product is a great bottom of the
funnel piece like go for the stuff where
people are really ready to convert and
then build it out for more of the top of
funnel stuff so talking about the entire
market and like summarizing where it
stands today and where it's going in
trends and like really talking to buyers
not like how to buy for it how those
tools we used how certain tools will be
outdated soon like that's the link the
position of thought leadership I
recommend taking so like that's that's
like early on you know don't just like
go in to go do like a content gap
analysis would be like we found that
like customer service tips gets a ton of
traffic yeah so let's create like huge
guides around that and it's like dude
who's searching for that think about it
you know go back to like really tying it
to the product and if it's and you know
those like big high traffic pieces I try
and structure those more to be like link
link stuff I think the jury's kind of
out on this I am more about like getting
like 10 to 15 really good links for an
asset and generally having them be like
natural and from the other people that
talk about that subject rather than like
let's go create a viral chart and get it
in like 50 to 100 publications that
publish
sixty pieces of content a day it'll get
shared once on Twitter to be a blip on
the radar and like I mean if you are
gonna create that kind of viral content
where I do see if you successful is if
it backs into a keyword so like when
people search for it it ranks continues
to get more traffic just from ranking
and from excuse to get more links from
ranking systematically connected to what
you're doing that's great but like I
think links really were a big part of
the algorithm and they still are but
Google is clearly able to suss out like
the meaning of content and they're able
to figure out like who is more
authoritative and content and links
definitely factor in to Authority but
having better content is starting to win
out and I think just like it's different
in e-commerce and I don't I don't no
one's talking about e-commerce I don't
know about e-commerce but in terms
of like long-form articles about
leadership like you definitely need
links and like rotative sites are gonna
have an advantage but you can crush by
just like owning your topics outright
and I think Google understands that like
links can be acquired and links can be
manipulated and and not just like spammy
shitty ones like good links that are
hard to get like you can create Lee go
on linked only campaigns and like why
because you prioritize that should more
people get your trap like I don't I
don't necessarily think it's like it's
worthy of traffic just because like you
could run an outreach campaign mm-hm so
and like it maybe it is and there's an
argument you made there and that's like
a philosophical thing like if people are
willing to link to you maybe you should
get more traffic but I think it's like
kind of like I don't think Google wanted
to create a world of like secondary
tools where people are just trying to
like categorize and buy and share and
sell links so I think that like putting
more emphasis on like content quality is
gonna be really important so I would if
anything like spend much more time that
was that's a mistake I made or not
in-house I tried to do content for cheap
and I tried to have like well this
person can write and you know well
basically have them like skyscraper or
whatever the that means sorry
language but the good well the like you
know I didn't I didn't have the ability
like
we delegate content directions well yeah
I wasn't using like solutions that could
help me plan out content more fast like
market used and I think I was just like
well how like I need like a unit of
production like I want to get a piece of
content or flakes 600 700 bucks and now
I hear like I know that b2b writers are
on like the 1500 like 2000 range if they
can get a link or two as well and like
all the power to them that's the good
writing should cost but like I would I
would find people that like really know
your space can write about it deeply and
like a great way to do that is by
hitting up the freelance writers you
used to write for your competitors but
the like really getting writers who know
what they're doing because in
authenticity just like will kill your
content before it gets out the door and
so like spending more time on
knowledgeable writers like I talked to
some folks early how can we get it for
reading or you know economics want it to
be like around like 200 of post-its just
like yeah that's not that's not gonna
happen
and Google in the top three things
trying to learn it and then just cram in
that back into an article yeah that's
where we were like four years ago five
years ago I think like you know
consultants are so smug well this is how
you do three years ago we were doing the
exact same and we literally live
and breathe this all day like you know
at a time or like a real VP of Marketing
thinks about SEO unless it's like a
purely SEO driven business or primarily
I see of different business is not that
large
and I I constantly am like educating
clients who you know they're at a
successful company they built a lot of
content they got the SEO thing going a
few years ago they're at the X company
now are like well why don't we just do
this like I was a I will not go into
specifics about the actual company but a
founder created a comScore top 20 web
property a few years before he started
to start up I was a hat and he is like
no you just like push spam to the index
we go so I think it's tough because
people still expect like the unit
economics of SEO for five years ago it'd
be the same today when they hear like
nah I have a shirt with maturity comes
budget and like you just to like table
stakes it's gonna cost you forty
thousand dollars just to compete on like
these like you know five hundred terms
just to get that content up like not
even to promote it like to design it
like novel writers who can instantly
write about like you know containerized
environments or like like how to do like
CI CD and I get like all like the more
niche I'd say like - high traffic areas
the high tech or like developer
operations stuff that I work on it's
very tough to find writers who will
write for cheap that can actually create
content that'll that'll convert and I
think if anything like spending a little
more in content is what I would have
done and like not being so worried I
like the pure uneconomic so like how
many visits week again how much whole
visit cost that's what I would recommend
because I think that they're like if
anything like traffic like bassy oh it's
all just like an opportunity to get some
eyeballs on your traffic that needs to
be like persuasive and authoritative I
posed on your content that you speak
persuasive and authoritative so putting
more effort into the actual content and
like figuring out the sort of like how
that equals like leads in pipeline
rather than just like we're gonna have
we're gonna start creating content for
like this amount we're gonna hit these
keywords over time but like really how
do we create something that really
stands out and I think I was just a
certain portions of my career I was like
I just felt pressured to produce and
when you go and like spend four months
creating like one asset it's a huge risk
and like you gotta have other irons in
the fire of course but it's like you're
putting a lot of your eggs in one basket
and I think a certain point of my career
I was just like really afraid to do that
but to really have some it's gonna stand
out and take and get noticed on the
Internet and decently not like you want
to create something that everyone that
has the job title that you're trying to
sell into would bookmark that content
and it's not gonna come from $700 or
$800 a post it's probably in my opinion
it's unless that worker unless that
writer becomes like really embedded with
your team it's probably not gonna come
from an outsource writer like you need
someone who not only talked about your
your product category but also like your
brand ethos like what your unique value
proposition is how you differentiate
they're gonna need to be know how to
kind of work that in subtly and not just
like throw it in and a call to action at
the end but really create the content so
it's it's persuasive to a buyer through
the entire point without being sort of
hitting you over the head
being a really salesy pulling you into
the funnel gracefully yes yeah and I
think that's true of clients at every
level right like that's true of clients
that you know are the local window wash
and you know one of our like kind of
cool clients is like the biggest window
washers in Chicago like they need that
same kind of strategy maybe not the same
technical expertise in writing but the
same kind of like considerations about
like alright we're not gonna look at
like a key word and a volume and here's
the article for that and then the next
key word the next article and you just
end up with this very disjointed like
blog role of garbage all the way up to
like what you're talking about like very
nuanced tack with like where like there
could be like a really long sales cycle
and all of these different things yeah
nobody's nobody's opting in nobody's
putting in their contact information and
getting closed that day you know talk to
me a little bit about like your work and
like how do people get in touch with you
and things like that I typically work
with b2b SAS companies I'd say typically
10 to about 80 million in venture
funding is sort of the sweet spot
usually like in the middle range 40 is
like the real sweet spot but yeah we
helped b2b SAS companies own their
product topic online through the use of
topic clusters so we focus on mapping
content to the purchase journey and
focusing on their product in product
marketing so really figuring out all
different ways that we can use content
sort of promote their product and reach
their buyers if you want to check out
some work if you type in chaos monkey
that it's on page one of Google it's on
the gremlin website but really that was
to own the entire topic of chaos monkey
we create really long form intricate
clusters that rank and for terms from
the top of the funnel down to the very
bottom if you want to get in touch with
me check out my website it's a growth
place or hit me up on twitter at JC
shirts on twitter have a little too much
coffee this morning
but yeah I'd say if you are you know if
you have typically I work with like
sales assistants ass so it's about
getting more emails into the database I
do work with you like self sign up size
companies as well but yeah typically
like sales assistant hire a CD products
with the pretty long they're like highly
considered sales like
so yeah definitely and like specifically
right now like a lot of folks online
kubernetes chaos engineering DevOps
space in general so yeah I like to work
with like more technical products and my
work has a big focus on AI on big fan of
the market use product and that allows
us to really plan out content without
having deep technical expertise
ourselves which can be pretty tough like
you know you know enough to get us there
but really the AI does a lot of the
heavy lifting and a lot of the research
for us and by leveraging that technology
we can move a lot faster that's spending
you know hours researching you know you
know what is it CEO or what is a Service
Master all these other like basic terms
that we just have to like come to the
table knowing otherwise awesome thanks
for coming on hundred days of SEO thanks
for having me alright so that was John
Henry shirk I hope you enjoyed it big
shout out to flywheel for sponsoring
this episode if you need fast reliable
wordpress hosting flywheels where i host
all of my websites you can check out
some of the links in the description
where i show exactly how to set up a
brand new fast reliable secure website
on flywheel and by adult new domain name
in only five minutes as well as why
hosting is one of these secret weapons
when it comes to SEO so check out those
two videos in the description also if
you need really good show notes for your
youtube channel or your podcast you can
go to 100 days of SEO comm check out all
the blog posts there I use pod reacher
pod Richard comm they're the ones that
helped me put together all of the blog
posts for 100 days of SEO
I've been Brendan Humphrey don't forget
to work hard be nice to people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]